this is the Samsung Galaxy s24 Ultra
this is the iPhone 15 Pro Max these
phone cameras are about to go to
battle and so am I last year we tested
the iPhone 15 Pro Max against the
Samsung Galaxy s23 Ultra and the iPhone
1 with 6.5 points to 3.5 so let's see if
Samsung's AI powered 2024 Flagship can
claim Redemption oh and the loser of
this video gets shot by an actual
tank so I want to start with
slow-mo can you see the happy look on my
face this is the look of a man who has
been asking n begging companies to show
some love to the feature for about 5
years and finally finally the s24 ultra
brings it the phone's capable of
shooting 4K footage at 120 frames per
second and I can confirm this is true 4K
slow-mo with no strings attached will
you notice the difference versus the
iPhone when watching back on your phone
screen probably not but can you tell
when you blow it up onto a TV absolutely
plus combine that with the fact that any
video on the Samsung can now be
instantly slowed down even further on
the spot by just holding down on it and
I think we can safely say that Samsung
has once again become the slow King now
because slow-mo itself is probably not
important enough to be its own category
we bundle it together into the overall
category called special modes which also
includes portrait mode video as well as
Ultra close-up macro shots but since
both of those features are very
comparable between the two phones like
this right here is portrait mode video
and this is what both phones macro shots
look like the iPhone can get closer
which is really useful but Samsung's
processing makes their shots look
crispier I think it's time time to hand
the overall category of special modes to
Samsung selfie wise well I mean
Samsung's last phone beat the iPhone so
its successor naturally wins too the way
I see it is the iPhone is a very
consistent 8 out of 10 for selfies never
exceptional but always good the Samsung
though swings between a 9 most of the
time with Samsung's best being
definitely better than the iPhone's best
and than the occasional six where it
seems to either not quite capture in
time leading to slightly softer than
expected face details or just blurs the
face of someone you've unwittingly
pulled into your photo where the iPhone
often still manages to keep it sharp but
85% of the time I think this takes
better shots they're crispier they're
more impressive they often look as good
as rear camera photos and they make you
look nice whereas often times when I
take photos with the iPhone I just feel
like I look so rough that I'm half
tempted to run the photos through face
tune before showing them to anyone now
one of the biggest changes we've been
told the s24 ultra is going to come with
is improved noise reduction and I'm
going to be honest with you if Samsung
actually managers who fix their noise
problem well that's bigger than slow-mo
that's bigger than all of this AI stuff
why because noisy videos are the single
biggest weakness of Samsung's cameras by
far and so if they're actually gone now
that's like finally cutting off the
weights and letting this thing fly
allowing people to finally focus on all
the awesome stuff these cameras can do
without having to constantly caveat it
with this annoying side effect that
seems to follow something around like a
shadow so is it better I would say it is
faces are are crisper than they were on
the s23 ultra and it does get less noise
in the videos you take and you know at
times the s24 ultra shoots such good
front camera video that looks so real it
can make the iPhone footage look fake
and unnatural Samsung's done a lot of
things right here but the main problem
of the darker areas of your shot
suffering from ugly amounts of noise
that hasn't been solved especially when
you move the camera it's 5% better than
last year but like you know still 50%
behind the iPhone I really want to give
some on the draw here because of how
good I know it can be but in their
current states if someone offered me one
of these two cameras for the purposes of
vlogging until Samsung fixes this and
also improves the dynamic range to the
iPhones level I would pick the iPhone so
far though in this battle that is two
points to one point so this camera
comparison is already a very different
story to the last one and we might just
be shooting an iPhone today and what
really starts to cement Samsung's lead
here is the camera app itself which is
actually one of the biggest changes
compared to when the s23 is launched
last year it looks better for starters
with icons having been cleared up and
animations updated but it's also
functionally better it's smoother like
navigating between the different modes
and more surprisingly being able to zoom
all the way in and out is now nearly as
smooth as the iPhone I have no idea why
it's taken this long to get here but let
me tell you it feels pretty good to be
here you can now just tap to change your
photo resolution and changing your video
properties makes way more sense too this
right here is the kind of practical
compact menu design that it would be
really cool to see apple do too cuz I
get that the iPhone's camera really
tries to keep things simple but this is
now pretty decluttered but also while
being able to access all your different
camera options without having to
navigate to a completely separate part
of the phone to change half of them and
you actually just get way more options
with the Samsung 2o you know those kind
of ultra Niche things that you think
only you care about and no one would
actually make a setting for yeah Samsung
gives you that level of control things
like if you set the camera to 50 megap
or 200 megap mode whether or not the
camera should keep those as the default
the next time you open the camera app or
like whether you want to swipe down of
your shutter button to either burst fire
photos or create an instant GIF and the
biggest thing with this s24 Ultra is
that it's faster to take photos too now
it's still not as fast as the iPhone but
there's no longer a massive gap between
them and I'd say the Samsung shoots fast
enough now that it doesn't feel like a
problem it doesn't stand out as a
sluggish camera like it used to the only
remaining weakness of this camera app is
the fact that it's a little hard to use
one-handed it's slightly the sharp boxy
shape of the phone but mostly just the
fact that many of the options are fixed
at the top instead of how the iPhone can
bring them all to your thumb with a
single swipe so I came pretty close at
this point to just calling this category
a draw and moving on but the thing
that's really tipped the scales for me
is the screen brightness on the Samsung
I did not expect to find it as useful as
I have but if you allow Samsung's
automatic brightness to take over it
gets so bright that even though I've
never felt like shooting Outdoors was an
issue on the iPhone this screen is so so
clear that it makes it feel like an
issue in comparison so yeah I think
Samsung's done enough this generation to
turn the camera app all the way from A
Loss into a win and related to this I
think Now's the Time to introduce a new
category into our camera comparisons
going forward editing features I've
thought about doing this for a long time
but the s24 feels like a very obvious
place to start it feels like we're on
the brink of a new era in which thanks
to really powerful artificial
intelligence it's no longer just about
the photos and videos you can take but
also about the photos and videos you can
make or to put it another way a lot of
the camera's capability now comes after
the shot has been captured so who does
that side of the experience better well
in the iPhones Corner the editor is
fairly simple it definitely leaves you
wanting more like I really wish there
was the ability to make a video that
you've taken two times or three times
speed I've needed that quite a bit but
credit where credits due everything that
is here is so fast you're never waiting
for any action there's no loading bars
making photo and video edits happens
literally as smoothly as changing your
volume and you want to crop something
you don't even need to be in the editor
you just zoom in while browsing and
click the crop button but then in
Samsung's corner you absolutely have
more options like you just swipe up on a
shot now and thanks to the new Pro
visual engine that understands photos
better you have a bunch of suggested
edits like background effect which is
actually pretty cool you can add the
portrait mode background blower but also
change the style of an existing portrait
mode shot to make it look like you're
having a particularly action-packed kind
of day I love this feature there's a lot
of options now there's remaster which is
usually a general brightening and
sharpening of a photo more often than
not it does make a positive difference
but it's more for older shots taken on
much worse cameras than this it doesn't
really do much to already good photos oh
but also the ability to erase
Reflections which if you like me find
yourself on a London balcony with the
most incredible view but a massive glass
sheet in front of you can be a very
powerful effect and I love that these
features are mostly just a tap away it
takes away that whole uh can I really be
bothered to fully jump into an editor
for this one specific photo the phone
takes away that load from you and I
haven't even talked about the biggest
change to Samsung's editing which is the
new generative AI image editor which is
pretty good if you're like I used to be
and your current default for repairing
photos is like the healing brush then
this very much will be a revolutionary
Step Up in being able to move subjects
to extend your image and erase things
you didn't want to be there it does need
an internet connection and it's not
super fast but the upside is that it's
kind of like those really powerful AI
websites without needing a monthly
subscription like most of them ask you
for oh at least not yet Samsung's saying
that these AI features will only be free
till the end of 2025 which I mean it
makes sense they do create a significant
load on Samsung servers but that's all
the more reason that we should be
demanding AI features that run offline
on your phone and don't require them but
even with that caveat I have to say
Samsung's editing Suite is way ahead of
Apple's and the pressure is really on
for the iPhone to start integrating AI
in a more explicit way very soon right I
think it's time we address the zoom
situation ever since Samsung decided to
go all in on this whole Space Zoom thing
with the s20 ultra regardless of how
important or unimportant you think Zoom
is one thing you can say is they have
consistently dominated the category but
within the span of just a few years the
iPhones have kind of under the radar
gone from pretty bad to very good at
Zoom 2 partly because the zoom lens
magnifications have gone up from 2x to
3x to now 5x on the iPhone 15 Pro Max
partly because of New Image processing
techniques like photonic engine which
can sharpen up photos taken beyond that
five times number and partly because the
iPhone takes particularly clear
noise-free zoomed in video or leading
Apple to for the first time taking home
the draw in last year's comparison now
the reason for the entire backstory is
so that you can also see how strange it
is that while all of that is happening
this time round Samsung has decided to
scale back their Zoom the previous 10
time zoom lens and three time zoom lens
combo has been swapped out for a five
times and a three times and it brings me
no joy to say this but as as much as
Samsung wants you to believe that this
5x lens is just as good because it's a
higher resolution camera compared to the
previous 10x your ability to zoom in far
is actually slightly worse let me show
you so this is a side by side of the s24
ultra versus last year's s23 Ultra and
you'll see that as we start to zoom in
beyond the phone's Optical ranges it
looks okay the AI processing on the new
phone is more sophisticated than it was
so your photos don't look Ultra grainy
like you might expect them to but at the
same time you can absolutely tell that
the new phone is seeing less that it
understands what it's shooting less well
and is having to use more processing to
bring it back into line here's another
example at 100 time zoom s24 Ultra again
the actual core details less real more
artificial and okay that's fine that's
one thing but what I didn't expect to
say today is what that translates to
which is that actually now the iPhone is
the better camera for zooming in long
distances I was pretty shocked I tested
it many times in many different lighting
conditions and yes eight times out of 10
the phone that doesn't even technically
let you go beyond the 25 time zoom Ark
in the camera app is actually capturing
more information than the phone that's
been letting you zoom in a 100 times for
4 years now Samsung is doing a lot more
software processing than the iPhone when
you zoom into things and it does
sometimes work but it also sometimes
looks so clearly oversharpened or almost
like it's had to use its imagination to
guess what the thing actually looks like
that you'd just rather it didn't you'd
rather the phone just told you yeah I
don't do a 100 times as opposed to you
having to take the shot first to realize
one of the things that Samsung
constantly advertises themselves as is
the definitive way to record a concert
from far away and that's kind of
accurate it's something the iPhone is
distinctly not good at with its
reluctance to switch into its zoom
camera paired with those absolutely
heinous internal glass Reflections you
get from bright light sources but
Samsung does still have a noise problem
enough of a noise problem that as soon
as the lights start to fade or you start
to shoot something even remotely not
bright the iPhone's video just starts to
look way more comfortable at 5x
magnification and also at 10x and Beyond
the one thing that Samsung Zoom cameras
do un arguably do better is zoom
consistency while the iPhone starts to
noticeably dip in quality when you get
to three times or four times you know
just before that 5 times zoom camera
activates because Samsung also has this
separate three times optical zoom camera
it can make sure that your Zoom quality
stays close to full quality anywhere
between 0.5x and 5x leading to what I
would say is an overall draw again in
the zoom category where this extra three
times lens really helps Samsung out
though is in the next one the ability to
take three times Zoom portrait mode
shots as well as five time zoom portrait
mode shots is an absolute godsend when
Apple announced that the iPhone 15 Pro
Max would have a five time zoom lens
instead of the three times that the 14
pro Max had there was a very split
reaction 50% of people loved the fact
that you now had a higher magnification
50% of people relented it for being too
much Zoom see because your zoom lens is
also generally the best lens to take
portraits now that the phone only has a
five times that's so much Zoom that you
know when you're sitting opposite the
table from someone and you want to take
a portrait of them you are going to have
to stand up and step back to fit them in
but with the Samsung now you don't have
to compromise you get both options at
full Optical quality and that takes it
from what was already a beastly camera
for portraits with excellent Edge
detection flattering image processing
and one of the most natural DSLR style
background blur effects to Elite here if
I had to call something this phone's
specialty I'd probably say it's this and
while the iPhone can shoot portrait mode
shots in 24 megapixel compared to
Samsung's 12 it can only do that when
shooting portrait modes at one times
magnification which I actually tend not
to do much of because 1X isn't as pretty
all right let's do some audio testing so
right now you're hearing the microphones
on the Samsung which do sound very good
indeed as they do on the iPhone I mean
not every company pays attention to the
microphone quality of their phones these
two do you can't really go wrong either
way what's actually kind of crazy is
that both microphones are so sensitive
that you can even whisper and as long as
you're in a quiet environment you can
still pick up the sound clearly phones
are crazy nowadays where they start to
diverge though is when you get
significant background noise you know
like the sound of an active tank in the
background yeah Samsung doesn't actually
make it sound so bad it's just that the
quality of my voice is cut into as the
phone aggressively tries to remove that
background noise whereas with the iPhone
you hear my voice pretty clearly but you
also hear the tank pretty clearly now
just before we bring this all together
and shoot one of these guys we have to
tackle the three big questions who takes
better quality photos who takes better
quality videos who handles nighttime
better so for photos does the Galaxy s24
Ultra with its Hardware improvements its
software improvements and its new
provisual engin significantly improve
upon the core photo quality of the s23
ultra well I do notice the contrast of
shots looking better now it's very rare
to have a washed out photo on the s24
and also color science it's refined
although I would definitely be clear to
say not perfected you will still notice
some funky Lighting in the background
being enough to rock the phone's
perception of an entire scene like I
took some shots with some of you guys
that I met while filming and you can see
the lighting of the surrounding area
very much bleeding onto our faces on the
Samsung or for another example you know
when you're zooming into something very
often every one of the different Zoom
magnifications has a slightly different
color profile so my skin tone actually
changes as you go but it isn't bad and
it's not always one way there are also
occasions where the iPhone goes too far
with color and the Samsung gets it right
dynamic range used to be a blanket
Samsung win iPhones used to suck at
being able to control the overexposure
of the sky but that's not true either
anymore there are cases where Samsung
does it better still but also cases
where the iPhone leads like Samsung
might overexpose your face when Apple
gets it right so they're about even on
that front but the detail is what
secures the iPhone's win interestingly
just like the new iPhones Samsung's s24
Ultra is now capable of shooting photos
in 24 megap resolution instead of 12
sadly for Samsung though while Apple's
now made 24 mapix the Default Resolution
that just happens in auto mode without
any compromise Samsung's 24 megapixel is
restricted to the expert raw camera app
they've not said it as a default I'm not
exactly sure why maybe they decided that
it makes the shutter time longer and
they've just worked so hard to get it
down whatever the reason the default in
auto mode and therefore what Samsung
recommends you use is their 12 megap
mode and that means detail does still
lag behind the Apple sometimes you'll
notice the difference in clar it a lot
like you can zoom in a whole extra time
on the iPhone and get the same level of
clarity other times it's pretty
negligible but the Gap exists of course
this being a 200 megapix sensor means
you do get options like the Samsung can
shoot in 50 megap mode although I still
think the iPhone's high-res 48 megap
mode is a little better it retains the
same quality image processing as your
normal photos whereas for Samsung you
actually notice the quality of
processing go down you're kind of having
to trade but then Samsung also has a
fullon 200 megapixel mode which even
though it takes a long time to process
the image is a cool idea I love the
concept of sitting in front of a
momentous landscape that I know will be
a once in a lifetime View and deciding
yeah this is where I go all in on
maximum resolution but I still wouldn't
necessarily say the 200 megapixel shots
are better than the 50 megapix shots in
the same way that you notice the level
of processing go down as you go from 12
to 50 you notice it go down again as you
go from 50 to 200 to the point where
brighter parts of the image for example
might just now end up over exposed one
of the new things for Samsung is that
they now allow you to shoot photos in
HDR where everything's ultra bright and
contrasty you'll be able to see the
preview in HDR while you're taking the
shots and then post directly an HDR to
social media like Instagram
but me I mean I've kind of gone off the
idea of HDR there's actually so many
times where I'm purposefully trying to
keep my brightness low so that I can
properly sleep at night and in those
times HDR is actually pretty annoying I
turn it off whenever I can so it may be
a factor for you but it's not personally
effective for me so iPhone is going to
take it for average photo quality the
only exception to that is the ultra wide
cameras which I would say both phones
are pretty balanced with their well
matched 12 megapix sensors the iPhones
is a tiny bit wider and sometimes does
come out with more balanced colors but
also pretty often it feels like
Samsung's image processing has cleaned
up a scene better so that's one key
question answered what about video
Samsung made pretty big strides last
year with the s23 Ultras video I
remember taking that phone out for the
very first time and nodding my head like
a proud father as I noticed the
significant strides in noise reduction
the improved dynamic range and the
ability to shoot 8K video without it
sucking so where does the s20 force it
well I would say it's a refinement it's
a subtle neatening up an S2 3.5 Ultra if
you will the level of noise is a tiny
bit further lowered the general
day-to-day stabilization a tiny bit
better thanks to the phone now using its
gyro sensors to better understand how
you're moving your phone and so what it
isn't is more detailed than the iPhone
when you're shooting really well lit
shots during the day you can look at
both and think well they're basically
the same and even in a standard night
scene to be fair there's not a massive
amount in it which is absolutely awesome
to see but it's in the details when
you're cropping in close to a certain
part of a video or showing your family
your favorite Clips on a big TV the
iPhone has enough of a leading Clarity
that you probably would notice and that
is a key key factor and it's especially
true when you've got really challenging
mix lighting like this I like the fact
that when things are dark Sams keeps
them dark but in these situations it's
too much it's like there's a black hole
under this tank that I've just
disappeared into or like what what
happens as this tank passes in front of
us you see how it goes really dark for a
second yeah it's too much it makes it
feel like a less balanced camera than
the iPhone by the way yes that is
actually me driving the tank shout out
to Armageddon this place is absolutely
mental as for what happens when you try
and run after the tank as most same
people do the stabilization during video
is very much on par and very high tier
on both considering how much motion
there is but if you want to go all in on
stabilization with the phone's
respective super steady and action modes
well then the iPhone just runs away with
it literally I don't know what Apple did
when designing this feature but from the
moment they launched it no other phone
has overtaken them for their sheer
ability to take smooth and yet still
high resolution action scenes the only
final question on our minds then is
night photos which based on Samsung's
event is what they paid particular
attention to and these two phones are
very good and very similar so much so
that when you're using night mode it's
in most situations as if you basically
got the exact same photo but just
processed it two different ways Samsung
with a cooler tone and lots of
sharpening applied apple with a warmer
tone and much less sharpening and one is
not really worse than the other I mean
Samsung absolutely slays the iPhone at
moon photos if that's your cup the
iPhone has no idea what to do or which
camera to use but I also don't want to
overweight that cuz it's not a regular
thing you're going to be doing and then
the iPhone is slightly better at night
portraits just in the sense that it
manages to make them feel like normal
photos whereas the Samsung really makes
it look like it's using a special mode
and filter and also something that we've
been seeing in other parts of the
comparison too but that's particularly
noticeable at night the iPhone is better
able to deal with color like this shot
of me on the bench we took it like 15
different times as the bench cycled
through every single color and each time
the iPhone just got it the exposure was
better controlled and the colors much
more realistic to what we were seeing so
so what does that leave us with well 6.5
to Samsung 4.5 to the iPhone Samsung has
clawed back a lot this generation Less
in terms of the actual output getting
significantly better although there are
improvements there too the biggest thing
is the experience of taking photos the
much smoother camera app the much faster
shutter speed the highly Advanced new
editing tools and so even though this
doesn't mean that Samsung wins at
everything cuz the iPhone does win some
important
categories well I can't believe we're
actually doing this but it promise is a
promise on you go oh and if you're
enjoying this video then a sub to the
channel would be gundul right this tank
is about to fire a 100 mph highly
explosive paint grenade trust me you
would not want to get hit by one of
these and now we just shoot 3 2
1 did we kill it did we kill it did we
no we didn't phone is completely alive
and unmarked balls in your court for
next time Apple